This workshop will bring together practicionners of Network Science and Archaeologists. Network Science has became a central tool to understand our ultra-wired society. From markets, grids of energy distribution, transportation networks and so on, it made possible the exploration and understanding how the way individual actors are connected can impact how the system in its globability changes and  . It is such a common way to represent and understand our world that the image of these split red and blue networks of online communities, facing eachother without communicating, has been seen by billions of people and his probably one of the first image that come to mind when someone speaks about how polarized has become our cultural environments. 
During the last decades, the strength of such methods hasen't been unotofied from the other fields of science throguthout the range of science and became of much interest for those who also work with human interaction, but thes interactions that happened in the past. Among them archaeologist  have already successfuls applyied the toolkit of network scientist into archaology. But these rare successful attempts are way smaller in comparison to how broad network science has been used in Social Science. One of the reason for this differences is that arcaheologist face face two problems that most network sciencist don't have to deal with:

 1st: to link two sites together archaeologist only rely on archaeological remains. To link two different scient or regions together ; archaeologist will thus have to measure the similarities between two archaeological remains. The problems is these remains have gone throught lot of changes. Chemical compostition may have been alrtered by external factor, secondary use may have transfromr the original artefact and so on and so forth. Thus, Link established by archaeologist cannot be taken as such, but as "likely" link, based on how similar artefact from two sites are.
 2nd: these links, once assessed, can't represent the whole network. Archaeologiicall eveidence are found only where archaeological excavation are made. This means that the sampling of archaeological network is extremly biased. Very few infromationn can be found in remote area where there is few actual human occupation, where urban area will be sur-represented.

In this workshop we hope to advance reflections about these problems by inviting together network scientists and archaeologists.

The morning of the workshop will be dedicated to presentation of archaeological problems that can be tackled through network science. The focus will be put on challenges brought by archaeometallurgy, where artefacts from different places can be link by looking at there isotopic and elemental composition. Presentation by Miljana Radivocevic, who pionnered the used of network science in Archaeology, and Oly Pryce, who extended this framework to larger time scale and geographical area. These two presentions will be then followed by two presentation focused on network science, one by Simo Carrignon, who used simulation to link network science and arC   And methods from network science that have potential applicaiton for. NBuilding apon the exemple of the morning, the afternoon wwill be shaped as a roundtable where different methods will be applied to different dataset. To avoid the problem and time delay that may emerges due to dataset and methods compatibilies; artificial dataaset will be provided by workshop organizers. Sharing experience and expectation, archaologist and network scientists will be able to test different technique to different sort of data. We hope this workshop will illustrate the problem faced one someone try to use network science and archaeology. We expect, on top of the 3 invited speaker, that memebers of the Computational and Digital Archaeology Lab will come to the workshop ; as lot of them are interested by network science and archaeometallyrgy. We would be pleased if members of the CRASSH community would join us as we thinlk they share similar problems. We hope researchers from other departements, also interested by network science and it's application to case study with very partial information will join us.

